.integration-context/phase-1-backend.md, before:

# Phase 1: Backend Integration Progress

## Phase Started: 2025-07-15T05:20:21Z

## Completed Tasks

### 1. Model Selection Engine ✓
- Created `model_selector.py` with intelligent routing logic
- Implemented task complexity detection
- Added support for multiple model types (Ollama, Gemini, Claude, GPT-4)
- Created rule-based selection criteria based on:
  - Task complexity (simple, moderate, complex, creative, analytical)
  - Task type (code, system commands, creative writing, etc.)
  - Internet availability
  - User preferences

### 2. Gemini API Integration ✓
- Created `gemini_integration.py` module
- Implemented proper Google Generative AI SDK integration
- Added conversation history management
- Created specialized methods for:
  - General chat
  - Code analysis
  - Code generation
  - Error explanation
  - Creative tasks

### 3. Enhanced Terminal Bridge ✓
- Updated `simple_terminal_bridge.py` to use model selector
- Integrated Gemini alongside Ollama
- Maintained existing MCP command functionality
- Added model selection logging
- Enhanced WebSocket response with model information

### 4. Dependencies Updated ✓
- Added `google-generativeai>=0.3.0` to requirements.txt
- Ensured all necessary packages are included

## Integration Architecture

```
User Message
     ↓
Terminal Bridge
     ↓
Model Selector (analyzes complexity & type)
     ↓
┌─────────────┬─────────────┐
│   Ollama    │   Gemini    │
│  (Local)    │  (Cloud)    │
└─────────────┴─────────────┘
     ↓
Response with model info
```

## Model Selection Logic

1. **System Commands** → Always use Ollama (local, fast, secure)
2. **Simple Queries** → Prefer Ollama unless specified
3. **Complex/Creative Tasks** → Use Gemini for better results
4. **Code Analysis** → Gemini for complex code, Ollama for simple
5. **Offline Mode** → Always fallback to Ollama

## API Integration Status

- [x] Ollama integration (existing)
- [x] Gemini integration (completed)
- [ ] Claude integration (future)
- [ ] GPT-4 integration (future)

## MCP Server Integration

The existing MCP servers remain functional:
- **Filesystem Server** (8765) - File operations
- **Desktop Server** (8766) - Screenshot and UI automation
- **System Server** (8767) - System monitoring
- **AI Bridge** (8005) - External AI integration

## Next Steps for Phase 1 Completion

1. **Test the integrated system**
   - Run terminal bridge with new model selection
   - Test various query types
   - Verify Gemini API connectivity

2. **Create unified API gateway**
   - Standardize responses across models
   - Add error handling and fallbacks
   - Implement retry logic

3. **Enhance natural language processing**
   - Improve command detection patterns
   - Add more system command mappings
   - Create command suggestion system

## Testing Commands

```bash
# Start the enhanced terminal bridge
python3 simple_terminal_bridge.py

# Test queries to trigger different models:
# Simple (Ollama): "Hello, how are you?"
# System (Ollama): "Show me system info"
# Complex (Gemini): "Analyze this complex algorithm and suggest optimizations"
# Creative (Gemini): "Write a creative story about AI and humans"
```

## Known Issues & TODOs

1. **API Key Management**
   - Currently hardcoded in gemini_integration.py
   - Should move to environment variables or config file

2. **Error Handling**
   - Need better fallback when Gemini fails
   - Add retry logic for API calls

3. **Performance**
   - Monitor response times
   - Implement caching for repeated queries

4. **Security**
   - Review API key storage
   - Implement rate limiting
   - Add request validation

## Phase 1 Status: 70% Complete

### Remaining Tasks:
- [ ] Comprehensive testing
- [ ] Error handling improvements
- [ ] Performance optimization
- [ ] Documentation updates

Commit message:

Phase 1: Backend Integration 90% complete - Add API Gateway
- Created unified API gateway for standardized AI responses
- Improved model selector with better complexity detection
- Integrated API gateway into terminal bridge
- Added proper Ollama integration with fallback chains
- Implemented response metadata and processing time tracking
- Enhanced error handling and fallback mechanisms

.integration-context/phase-1-backend.md, after:

# Phase 1: Backend Integration Progress

## Phase Started: 2025-07-15T05:20:21Z

## Completed Tasks

### 1. Model Selection Engine ✓
- Created `model_selector.py` with intelligent routing logic
- Implemented task complexity detection
- Added support for multiple model types (Ollama, Gemini, Claude, GPT-4)
- Created rule-based selection criteria based on:
  - Task complexity (simple, moderate, complex, creative, analytical)
  - Task type (code, system commands, creative writing, etc.)
  - Internet availability
  - User preferences

### 2. Gemini API Integration ✓
- Created `gemini_integration.py` module
- Implemented proper Google Generative AI SDK integration
- Added conversation history management
- Created specialized methods for:
  - General chat
  - Code analysis
  - Code generation
  - Error explanation
  - Creative tasks

### 3. Enhanced Terminal Bridge ✓
- Updated `simple_terminal_bridge.py` to use model selector
- Integrated Gemini alongside Ollama
- Maintained existing MCP command functionality
- Added model selection logging
- Enhanced WebSocket response with model information

### 4. Dependencies Updated ✓
- Added `google-generativeai>=0.3.0` to requirements.txt
- Ensured all necessary packages are included

## Integration Architecture

```
User Message
     ↓
Terminal Bridge
     ↓
Model Selector (analyzes complexity & type)
     ↓
┌─────────────┬─────────────┐
│   Ollama    │   Gemini    │
│  (Local)    │  (Cloud)    │
└─────────────┴─────────────┘
     ↓
Response with model info
```

## Model Selection Logic

1. **System Commands** → Always use Ollama (local, fast, secure)
2. **Simple Queries** → Prefer Ollama unless specified
3. **Complex/Creative Tasks** → Use Gemini for better results
4. **Code Analysis** → Gemini for complex code, Ollama for simple
5. **Offline Mode** → Always fallback to Ollama

## API Integration Status

- [x] Ollama integration (existing)
- [x] Gemini integration (completed)
- [ ] Claude integration (future)
- [ ] GPT-4 integration (future)

## MCP Server Integration

The existing MCP servers remain functional:
- **Filesystem Server** (8765) - File operations
- **Desktop Server** (8766) - Screenshot and UI automation
- **System Server** (8767) - System monitoring
- **AI Bridge** (8005) - External AI integration

## Next Steps for Phase 1 Completion

1. **Test the integrated system**
   - Run terminal bridge with new model selection
   - Test various query types
   - Verify Gemini API connectivity

2. **Create unified API gateway**
   - Standardize responses across models
   - Add error handling and fallbacks
   - Implement retry logic

3. **Enhance natural language processing**
   - Improve command detection patterns
   - Add more system command mappings
   - Create command suggestion system

## Testing Commands

```bash
# Start the enhanced terminal bridge
python3 simple_terminal_bridge.py

# Test queries to trigger different models:
# Simple (Ollama): "Hello, how are you?"
# System (Ollama): "Show me system info"
# Complex (Gemini): "Analyze this complex algorithm and suggest optimizations"
# Creative (Gemini): "Write a creative story about AI and humans"
```

## Known Issues & TODOs

1. **API Key Management**
   - Currently hardcoded in gemini_integration.py
   - Should move to environment variables or config file

2. **Error Handling**
   - Need better fallback when Gemini fails
   - Add retry logic for API calls

3. **Performance**
   - Monitor response times
   - Implement caching for repeated queries

4. **Security**
   - Review API key storage
   - Implement rate limiting
   - Add request validation

## Phase 1 Status: 90% Complete

### Completed in This Session:
- [x] Improved model selector complexity detection
- [x] Created unified API gateway with standardized responses
- [x] Integrated API gateway into terminal bridge
- [x] Added proper Ollama integration in API gateway
- [x] Implemented fallback chains for reliability
- [x] Added processing time tracking and metadata

### Remaining Tasks:
- [ ] Comprehensive testing of the integrated system
- [ ] Add more natural language command patterns
- [ ] Create configuration file for API keys
- [ ] Documentation updates
